Welcome back.
And in this lesson this is a final lesson of the section where we're going to do a quick code review
and I'll be out an opportunity to try this game out for yourself.
Build out your own version of it and always before you finalize the product.
Play through it several times just to ensure that things are working as expected and as you can see
I'm fairly satisfied with the way that this game what runs.
And whenever I do the collision then we run and we get game over and we also get our score.
So everything that we set out is in place so we can do a final code review now.
First we came into this application.
We added in a bit of styling to present the game in a better better style format.
So that was all of this was just typical CSF styling.
And this isn't this isn't necessary for the gameplay as you know that we started the original cars were
just squares and then we've been updating them throughout the gameplay.
So again this is optional and you can make your own version of how these cars look coming into the H2
AML.
We didn't have a whole lot of HD Himmel we tried to keep it to a minimal and tried to do as much as
possible with JavaScript so we set up an element for score.
We set up element for our game and then we had two different screens.
So we've got our start screen which is this red box here which gives us some instructions and also tells
the player what to do and how to start the game.
And then we have our main game area.
So this is where all of the magic happens and how we generate out all of our content within our javascript.
We came into the javascript creating some objects that connected to the elements to our H2 metal elements.
So that made it really easy to connect to those and attach all of the different functionality that we
needed.
And the interactive and dynamic content we also needed to setup a few objects.
So we've got one for the player which tracks the speed and the score.
We can also add in other values if needed because it is an object and using objects keeps it nice and
neat within one package so that you can really easily access it and it makes a lot more sense when you're
adding it into the code.
Also for the keys.
So we generated another object for the Keys by default we set them all to false and these were all of
the four different keys that we're tracking so we wanted movement for up down right and left.
So we need to also track those if they've been pressed and if they've been released and take the appropriate
function within our gameplay for that we needed to add in a few event listeners.
So one of the event listeners that we added in we wanted a quick start in order to start the game so
that adds that functionality to that start screen as well as for the keys.
We needed two functions.
We needed one function that tracks when the player presses A key down another one when the player presses
A key up and going into our object.
We set up those keys tracking what the keys were set as.
So if we set the keys with the key value to true we could also set them to false afterwards as well.
We also tracked the console log putting the key values.
So this is actually not necessary for a finalized gameplay so we can remove that at this point.
So going into the key object we're able to track which keys are pressed up and down then going into
our game play.
We were tracking our gameplay.
So we have our Start button which kicks off the game and starts the Nisshin ization of the game.
So that was our start function where we need to hide the start screen.
We need to clear out the game area.
So in case this is a restart we need to clear that out.
We also reset those values to true and to zero.
So the players start value is the one that's going to control all of the functionality.
So if this is true that's when the game is playing.
If it's false then we're not going to play the game the game stops in and play.
And basically it stops the animation screen.
We also needed to generate the lines for our background so we went and we let generated 10 lines for
our road to make it look more like a road.
Of course we also initiated our play game request animation frame.
And this is going into a loop.
So we'll take a look at that as well.
We generated our car.
So it's the white car they're creating and elements.
That was a div set an attribute of car so connected it to the class of car that gave us the styling
and the image and so on.
And the basic width height and position of the within the game area.
Then we added in the car on the game area.
So that gives us the ability to add it into the each team all of the objects.
So see there there's our car.
We've generated that these are all the lines that we generated and the top positions of those lines.
And as you can see that once we start running the application then these line values are going to be
changing dynamically.
We also have our enemies.
So we generated three of them.
And this again was a generation of particularly the div and we had to set some properties into the div.
So those are within the styles there that you see that that's how we're actually moving the element
by adjusting the style we create a random color for it.
And then once we've created it we append it to the game area and you can see the enemies are generated
down there.
So they all have different top starting positions and they also different background colors and generating
the random colors we create a function that generates a random hex value and we can see that again within
the style that these are just random color values that are generated.
So the meat action of this game takes place within the request animation frame where we're calling the
play game function.
So going over to play game this is where all the movement of our application happens.
So first we were getting the car element so selecting that element with a class of car so that we could
select that one that we've generated within that game area and then we had a couple of functions one
for moving the background lines another one for moving the enemy.
So take a look at those in a bit we got the road bounding area.
So that was so that we could use that for top and bottom.
We could have also generated these values as well for the road the top and the bottom.
So this was an absolutely 100 percent necessary that we use.
They get bounding client rectangle but we were using it within the collision detection.
So it was a good practice exercise to start using and understanding what values we can get from this
javascript function down here is where we're checking to see if the player start is functioning and
if it is then we attach with the arrow keys what's going to happen using an updating value that's contained
within that element object.
So a Y and an X and then taking those x and y values and this is where we were updating the style in
order to match it with whatever the x and y position was because it's a lot easier to update the x and
y position we could of course have calculated moving the left and top but then we'd have to do it multiple
times.
So this way was a little bit cleaner.
Next we re initiate the request animation frame and re initiate that play game.
So it's going to continuously loop and run all of that function and then we've also updating our score
as we're moving through and also updating the inter inter text of the score.
So the player can see the score increasing and then all we're doing is going back to that play game.
And this is where all the functionality takes place.
We've got our move lines move enemy.
So those functions are sitting over here.
So we've got our move enemy and we're passing in that car element object because we need to make a collision
detection.
So instead of selecting it and use using it again with document query selector we just simply passed
it in then we were grabbing all of the elements with a class of enemy.
So let's mix it dynamics if we had more enemies we could grab all of them.
We loop through each one of those and we check to see if there's a collision and if there is then we
end the game.
Otherwise we just we just continue with the movement of those cars.
And another thing too that we're checking to see if the car has run off of the screen and if it has
then we reset it to negative 600 and we also reset the left position and we reset the background color
so it can look have a different background color and we can also have a different left position and
then after all of these conditions.
So if these conditions are not true then we skip directly through updating the y position of that element
and that means that we're updating the style and the top position just as we were with the players car.
The other one that we're doing is that we're updating and moving the lines.
So this one wasn't as complex.
We're still doing the same thing where we're using query selector to select all the lines and looping
through all of the lines within the node list we needed to check to see if the value of y was off the
screen greater than fifteen hundred and if it was then we're subtracting fifteen hundred from it.
And this keeps the lines within the same distance apart.
So instead of setting a value we're subtracting the fifteen hundred.
So if we had 15 15 we would still end up with negative subtracted off of there.
So we'd still end up with a value that we could utilize and we would still have the same distance between
the lines also increasing the player speed as by the player speed.
So this can be dynamic as well so we can increase the player speed speed and it will increase the way
the lines move as well as the enemies.
And we also had our item I style that we were updating as well.
Now one of the most important functions of this game was the collision detection which we're using within
the move enemy where we're taking the enemy object as well as the player object which is the car.
And then the enemy object and checking to see if there's overlap between the elements on the page and
we're using that get bounding client rectangle method in order to get the top left right and bottom
positions and then we were looking and comparing to see if the horizontal or the vertical top and bottom
are overlapping.
And again the opposite.
So the top and the bottom of the opposite ones.
And if there's overlap there then we know that there's a possible collision.
And if this one is as well.
Possible collision and this one as well if it's a possible collision.
So taking all of these into consideration notice that these are orbs.
So if any of these are overlapping then we know that we've got some type of overlap and we need to take
this into consideration as we returned back that value.
And this is all contained within one statement here.
And if there is any overlap then by default where toggling that value from false to true and returning
back at value of true and that means that we do have a collision between the elements and then we do
the end game functionality essentially that was really the core of what we're doing the end game was
relatively straightforward where we have the player start functions so we set that to false so we can
stop running that animation screen.
We output the score for the player so they can see what the score is and we also write game over and
then we also have our start screen where we're showing that start screen button again so the player
can restart the game and we needed to make sure as well that when we're restarting the game that we're
clearing everything out and we're preparing a brand new game again for the play.
So go ahead and try this out for yourself.
All of the source code is also included so you can copy paste it try it out experiment with it and get
familiar with the content that we've covered in the previous lessons.
Thanks again for taking this section of the course.